Step 1:
a. netstat displays all of active internet connections as well as the active UNIX domain sockets. 
b. ifconfig ddisplays the staatus of the currently active interfaces. 
c. hostname simply displays the host name of the system, which in my case waas linux11104
d. I typed ping google.com in order to send packets to the IP address. When the request stops, it gives the packets transmitted, received, loss as well as the time. 
e. traceroute tracks the route packets taken from an IP address on their way to a given host. 
f. telnet communicaates with another host using the TELNET protocal.
g. host converts names to IP addresses and vice versa. Both host and dig perform DNS lookups. 
h. route manipulates the kernel's IP routing tables. 
i. arp manipulates or displays the kernel's IPv4 network neighbour cache. 

Step 2:
Host names: google.com, bbc.co.uk, yandex.ru
-Sending 64 bytes to google.com
a. 0% packet loss
b. The round trip time was 2.27 ms

-sending 128 bytes to bbc.co.uk
a. 0% packet loss
b. The round trip time was 2.54 ms

-sending 258 bytes to yandex.ru
a. 0% packet loss
b. The round trip time was 178 ms

c. While the RTT between google.com and bbc.co.uk was not significant, the RTT for yandex.ru was significatly higher. Therefore the further away you are sending your packets, it will result in a higher RTT value. 

Step 4:
a. When I typed telnet gaia.cs.umass.edu 80, it seems to have connected me with the domain. 
b. It seems to have returned a HTML script
c. index.php is the name of the file that is being retrieved. HTTP 1.1. Everything seems to be HTML script, which describes the page that is being returned. 

Step 5: 
-google.com
Port 80 was connected successfully. Port 3389 did not connect successfully.
-bbc.co.uk
Port 80 was connected successfully, although the escape character would not work for some reason. Port 3389 did not connect. 
-yandex.ru
Port 80 was connected successfully, although the escape character would not work for some reason. Port 3389 did not connect. 